---


---

<h1 id="subcortical-atlas">Subcortical atlas</h1>
<h2 id="background">Background</h2>
<p>These bash scripts generate an atlas of subcortical structures by integrating a number of existing segmentations into a common standard space.<br>
The segmented structures include (see full table below):</p>
<ul>
<li><strong>Amygdala</strong> subnuclei (9 ROIs/hemisphere)<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn1" id="fnref1">1</a></sup></li>
<li><strong>Hippocampus</strong> subfields (19 ROIs/hemisphere)<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn2" id="fnref2">2</a></sup></li>
<li><strong>Thalamus</strong> subnuclei (24 ROIs/hemisphere)<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn3" id="fnref3">3</a></sup></li>
<li><strong>Striatum</strong> nuclei (4 ROIs/hemisphere)<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn4" id="fnref4">4</a></sup></li>
<li><strong>Hypothalamus</strong> (25 ROIs/hemisphere)<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn5" id="fnref5">5</a></sup></li>
<li><strong>Midbrain/brainstem</strong> (9 ROIs)<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn6" id="fnref6">6</a></sup></li>
<li><strong>Cerebellum</strong> (28 ROIs)<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn7" id="fnref7">7</a></sup></li>
<li>Additionally: any of the <strong>Schaefer cortical parcellations</strong> (100-1000 parcels) can be downloaded and added to the atlas<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn8" id="fnref8">8</a></sup></li>
</ul>
<p>Individual ROIs can be flexibly combined into larger ROIs.<br>
The generated atlas is in 1mm resolution in a standard MNI152 space (MNI152_T1_1mm_brain.nii.gz) and comes in 3D and 4D versions.</p>
<h2 id="usage">Usage</h2>
<p>Create a local directory (ROOTDIR, hereafter), and download the <strong>one source_this file</strong> and <strong>four scripts</strong>  into a “/code” directory within it.</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>SOURCE FILE: source_this.sh</strong></p>
<p>This file is to be sourced (using the <em>source</em> command) before running any of the scripts.<br>
This file defines several constants that will be used by the scripts. The user should review and amend these as necessary. Their default values are specified when relevant.</p>
<ol>
<li><strong>ROOTDIR</strong>: working directory.</li>
<li><strong>TEMPLATE_T1</strong>=${FSLDIR}/data/standard/MNI152_T1_1mm_brain.nii.gz: the T1 structural template that atlases are registered to.</li>
<li><strong>DOWNLOAD</strong>=YES: download atlases sources (YES/NO)? No need to download again if sources are already in ROOTDIR/source.</li>
<li><strong>DO_SUBFS</strong>=YES: should the amygdala<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn1" id="fnref1:1">1</a></sup>, hippocampus<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn2" id="fnref2:1">2</a></sup>, and thalamus<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn3" id="fnref3:1">3</a></sup> subnuclei/subfields be included (YES/NO)? This will also include the four striatal nuclei from the basic FreeSurfer pipeline<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn4" id="fnref4:1">4</a></sup>.</li>
<li><strong>DO_HYPOTHALAMUS</strong>=YES: should the Hypothalamus atlas<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn5" id="fnref5:1">5</a></sup> be included (YES/NO)?</li>
<li><strong>DO_AAN</strong>=YES: should the Harvard Ascending Arousal Network (midbrain and brainstem<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn6" id="fnref6:1">6</a></sup>) be included (YES/NO)?</li>
<li><strong>DO_CEREBELLUM</strong>=YES: should the Cerebellum atlas<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn7" id="fnref7:1">7</a></sup> be included (YES/NO)?</li>
<li><strong>DO_SCHAEFER</strong>=YES: should any of the Schaefer cortical parcellations<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn8" id="fnref8:1">8</a></sup> be included (YES/NO)?</li>
<li><strong>SCHAEFER_NUMNETS</strong>=17: if a Schaefer parcellation is to be included, which one (number of networks: 7/17)?</li>
<li><strong>SCHAEFER_NUMPARC</strong>=100: if a Schaefer parcellation is to be included, which one (number of parcels: 100-1000)?</li>
<li><strong>SUBCORTICAL_LIST</strong>=${ROOTDIR}/code/all_subcortical_ROIs.txt: this file will list all individual subcortical ROIs generated by the <em>01_get_and_isolate_ROIs.sh</em> script.</li>
<li><strong>CORTICAL_LIST</strong>=${ROOTDIR}/code/all_cortical_ROIs.txt: this file will list all individual cortical parcels generated by the <em>01_get_and_isolate_ROIs.sh</em> script (if a parcellation is to be included).</li>
<li><strong>OVERLAP_FILE</strong>=${ROOTDIR}/code/overlaps.csv: this file will be generated by generated by the <em>02_find_overlaps.sh</em> will list all identified overlaps between ROIs.</li>
<li><strong>ROI_FILE</strong>=${ROOTDIR}/code/my_ROIs.txt: a user-defined text file in which each line defines one ROI from one or more of the individual ROIs created in SUBCORTICAL_LIST and CORTICAL_LIST.</li>
<li><strong>ATLAS_NAME_3D</strong>: name of the 3D atlas to be created by <em>04_merge_ROIs.sh</em>.</li>
<li><strong>ATLAS_NAME_4D</strong>: name of the 4D atlas to be created by <em>04_merge_ROIs.sh</em>.</li>
<li><strong>LUT_TABLE_NAME</strong>: name of the color lookup table to accompany the atlases to be created by <em>04_merge_ROIs.sh</em>.</li>
</ol>
<hr>
<p><strong>SCRIPT 1: 01_get_and_isolate_ROIs.sh</strong></p>
<p>This script downloads (if chosen to) the source atlases from their original online locations. It then processes them: it registers them all to a common MNI152 space, and then isolates all ROIs in all atlases into individual nii.gz files.</p>
<p><strong>Script outputs:</strong></p>
<ol>
<li>Directories within ROOTDIR/atlases/ containing an individual nii.gz file in the common MNI space per ROI (see table below). E.g., <em>ROOTDIR/atlases/Amygdala/isolated/Amygdala_Left-Accessory-Basal-nucleus.nii.gz</em>.</li>
<li>A text file (saved in ROOTDIR/code; name defined by SUBCORTICAL_LIST) listing all the processed subcortical ROIs.</li>
<li>A text file (saved in ROOTDIR/code; name defined by CORTICAL_LIST) listing all the processed cortical parcels.</li>
</ol>
<hr>
<p><strong>SCRIPT 2: 02_find_overlaps.sh</strong><br>
Since the original atlases were created separately, there are some overlaps between them. This scripts identifies all overlaps.</p>
<p><strong>Script outputs:</strong></p>
<ol>
<li>OVERLAP_FILE, a csv file saved in ROOTDIR/code/. Each overlap appears in one comma-separated line listing ROI1, ROI2, the size of overlap (in voxels), and coordinates of the overlap.<br>
Note that the next script will remove this overlap by subtracting it from ROI1; the user may therefore wish to reorder ROI1 and ROI2 in this file.</li>
</ol>
<hr>
<p><strong>SCRIPT 3: 03_remove_overlaps.sh</strong><br>
This scripts removes the ROI overlaps identified by the previous script (stored in OVERLAP_FILE).</p>
<p><strong>Script outputs:</strong><br>
No outputs. The script modifies each ROI1 file (in the relevant /isolated directory) in ROI1 and ROI2 pairs defined in OVERLAP_FILE.</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>SCRIPT 4: 04_merge_ROIs.sh</strong><br>
This scripts takes a user-defined text file (as defined by ROI_FILE) specifying all ROIs to comprise the new atlas. These ROIs can include combinations of individual ROIs. Each line in ROI_FILE should include one ROI to include in the atlas. The syntax of each line is: “roi_number:roi_name;roi1+roi2+roi3+…”, whereby roi_number is an integer defined by the user (note that for Schaefer parcels, these are automatically generated and occupy values 1000-2999); roi_name is any string name defined by the user; and roi1+roi2+roi3+… are individual ROI names (as created by <em>01_get_and_isolate_ROIs.sh</em> and stored in SUBCORTICAL_LIST and CORTICAL_LIST) combined into roi_name.<br>
For example:<br>
–1008:Schaefer_Left-SomMotA-1:Schaefer_Left-SomMotA-1<br>
–5142:Hypothalamus_Left-BNST:Hypothalamus_Left-BNST<br>
–5243:Hypothalamus_Right-Midbrain:Hypothalamus_Right-STN+Hypothalamus_Right-SN+Hypothalamus_Right-RN+Hypothalamus_Right-ZI</p>
<p><strong>Script outputs:</strong></p>
<ol>
<li>A 3D atlas file (ATLAS_NAME_3D.nii.gz) in which all ROIs defined in ROI_FILE are in one volume. Each ROI has the number label defined in ROI_FILE.</li>
<li>A 4D atlas file (ATLAS_NAME_4D.nii.gz) in which each ROI defined in ROI_FILE is in a separate, sequential volume. Each ROI value is 1.</li>
<li>A lookup table text file (LUT_TABLE_NAME.txt) defining the RGB color of each ROI in the atlas.</li>
</ol>
<hr>
<p><strong>Note</strong>: These scripts require FSL and FreeSurfer 7 to be locally installed.</p>
<h2 id="methods">Methods</h2>
<p><strong>Getting and isolating ROIs</strong></p>
<p>Script <em>01_get_and_isolate_ROIs.sh</em> downloads/generates the source segmentations, registers them to a standard space, and processes all ROIs within them such that these could then be used to compose the new atlas.</p>
<p>Amygdala, hippocampus, and thalamus subnuclei/subfield segmentation is performed on the output of a standard run of FreeSurfer’s <em>recon-all</em> on the mni_icbm152_nlin_asym_09b template<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn9" id="fnref9">9</a></sup> (<a href="http://www.bic.mni.mcgill.ca/~vfonov/icbm/2009/mni_icbm152_nlin_asym_09b_nifti.zip">http://www.bic.mni.mcgill.ca/~vfonov/icbm/2009/mni_icbm152_nlin_asym_09b_nifti.zip</a>) that has been registered to FSL’s MNI standard space (FSLDIR/data/standard/MNI152_T1_1mm_brain.nii.gz) using an affine transformation, through FLIRT<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn10" id="fnref10">10</a></sup>. The scripts <em>HA_T1.sh</em><sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn1" id="fnref1:2">1</a></sup>,<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn2" id="fnref2:2">2</a></sup>  and <em><a href="http://segmentThalamicNuclei.sh">segmentThalamicNuclei.sh</a></em><sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn3" id="fnref3:2">3</a></sup> then segment this registered output into subnuclei/subfields. These are then stored in their respective ROOTDIR/atlases/ directories. In addition, the four striatal nuclei segmented by the standard FreeSurfer run (accumbens, caudate, pallidum, putamen)<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn4" id="fnref4:2">4</a></sup> are retained and could be used in constructing the atlas (stored in ROOTDIR/atlases/Striatum).</p>
<p>The hypothalamus segmentation<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn5" id="fnref5:2">5</a></sup> is downloaded from the repository created by its authors (<a href="https://zenodo.org/record/3942115/files/MNI152b_atlas_labels_0.5mm.nii.gz">https://zenodo.org/record/3942115/files/MNI152b_atlas_labels_0.5mm.nii.gz</a>). The space it is originally in is registered to FSL’s MNI standard space (FSLDIR/data/standard/MNI152_T1_1mm_brain.nii.gz) using an affine transformation, and resampled to 1mm, through FLIRT<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn10" id="fnref10:1">10</a></sup>.</p>
<p>The midbrain/brainstem (AAN) segmentation<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn6" id="fnref6:2">6</a></sup> is downloaded from the repository created by its authors (<a href="http://nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/martinos/resources/aan-atlas/AAN_MNI152_1mm_v1p0.zip">http://nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/martinos/resources/aan-atlas/AAN_MNI152_1mm_v1p0.zip</a>). It is already in FSL’s MNI standard space and thus requires no additional processing.</p>
<p>The cerebellum segmentation<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn7" id="fnref7:2">7</a></sup> is copied from FSL’s atlases directory (FSLDIR/data/atlases/Cerebellum/Cerebellum-MNIfnirt-maxprob-thr50-1mm.nii.gz). It shows good overlap with FSL’s MNI standard space and thus requires no additional processing.</p>
<p>The Schaefer cortical parcellations<sup class="footnote-ref"><a href="#fn8" id="fnref8:2">8</a></sup> are downloaded from the repository created by its authors (<a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ThomasYeoLab/CBIG/master/stable_projects/brain_parcellation/Schaefer2018_LocalGlobal/Parcellations/MNI/">https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ThomasYeoLab/CBIG/master/stable_projects/brain_parcellation/Schaefer2018_LocalGlobal/Parcellations/MNI/</a>). They show good overlap with FSL’s MNI standard space and thus require no additional processing.</p>
<p>Each ROI as defined by the original atlases is then isolated into its own nii.gz file using FSL’s <em>fslmaths</em> command.<br>
The script also generates text files listing all generated subcortical (SUBCORTICAL_LIST) and cortical (CORTICAL_LIST) ROIs.</p>
<p><strong>Removing ROI overlaps</strong><br>
Some overlaps between the original segmentations exist (e.g., Hypothalamus_Left-MT and Thalamus_Left-VA) since these were created by different authors and clear delineation of borders is not always clear. Script <em>02_find_overlaps.sh</em> tests for pairwise overlaps between all ROIs using FSL’s <em>fslmaths</em> and <em>fslstats</em> commands. All identified overlaps between ROI1 and ROI2 are then stored in OVERLAP_FILE. Script <em>03_remove_overlaps.sh</em> then removes all overlaps in OVERLAP_FILE by removing the ROI1-ROI2 overlap from ROI1 using FSL’s <em>fslmaths</em> command.</p>
<p><strong>Merging ROIs into new atlas</strong><br>
Finally, the user can define which ROIs to include in the new atlas in a new text file defined by ROI_FILE in the <em>source_this.sh</em> file. Multiple individual ROIs from SUBCORTICAL_LIST and CORTICAL_LIST can be combined to form one larger ROI. Single and combined ROIs are added together to the same volume, using <em>fslmaths</em>, to form the 3D atlas file. These are similarly added, but into different volumes using <em>fslmerge</em>, to form the 4D atlas file. In addition, an RGB color lookup table text file is created to accompany the atlases.</p>
<h2 id="segmented-rois">Segmented ROIs</h2>
<p>Script-generated labels and corresponding full names of all segmented ROIs:</p>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th><strong>Amygdala</strong></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Left-Accessory-Basal-nucleus</td>
<td>Left accessory basal nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Left-Anterior-amygdaloid-area-AAA</td>
<td>Left anterior amygdaloid area (AAA)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Left-Basal-nucleus</td>
<td>Left basal nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Left-Central-nucleus</td>
<td>Left central nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Left-Cortical-nucleus</td>
<td>Left cortical nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Left-Corticoamygdaloid-transitio</td>
<td>Left corticoamygdaloid transition area</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Left-Lateral-nucleus</td>
<td>Left lateral nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Left-Medial-nucleus</td>
<td>Left medial nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Left-Paralaminar-nucleus</td>
<td>Left paralaminar nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Right-Accessory-Basal-nucleus</td>
<td>Right accessory basal nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Right-Anterior-amygdaloid-area-AAA</td>
<td>Right anterior amygdaloid area (AAA)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Right-Basal-nucleus</td>
<td>Right basal nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Right-Central-nucleus</td>
<td>Right central nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Right-Cortical-nucleus</td>
<td>Right cortical nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Right-Corticoamygdaloid-transitio</td>
<td>Right corticoamygdaloid transition area</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Right-Lateral-nucleus</td>
<td>Right lateral nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Right-Medial-nucleus</td>
<td>Right medial nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Amygdala_Right-Paralaminar-nucleus</td>
<td>Right paralaminar nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Hippocampus</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-CA1-body</td>
<td>Left CA1 body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-CA1-head</td>
<td>Left CA1 head</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-CA3-body</td>
<td>Left CA3 body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-CA3-head</td>
<td>Left CA3 head</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-CA4-body</td>
<td>Left CA4 body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-CA4-head</td>
<td>Left CA4 head</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-fimbria</td>
<td>Left fimbria</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-GC-ML-DG-body</td>
<td>Left granule cell and molecular layer of the dentate gyrus - body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-GC-ML-DG-head</td>
<td>Left granule cell and molecular layer of the dentate gyrus - head</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-HATA</td>
<td>Left hippocampal amygdala transition area (HATA)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-hippocampal-fissure</td>
<td>Left hippocampal fissure</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-HP-tail</td>
<td>Left HP tail</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-molecular-layer-HP-body</td>
<td>Left molecular layer HP body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-molecular-layer-HP-head</td>
<td>Left molecular layer HP head</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-parasubiculum</td>
<td>Left parasubiculum</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-presubiculum-body</td>
<td>Left presubiculum body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-presubiculum-head</td>
<td>Left presubiculum head</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-subiculum-body</td>
<td>Left subiculum body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Left-subiculum-head</td>
<td>Left subiculum head</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-CA1-body</td>
<td>Right CA1 body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-CA1-head</td>
<td>Right CA1 head</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-CA3-body</td>
<td>Right CA3 body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-CA3-head</td>
<td>Right CA3 head</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-CA4-body</td>
<td>Right CA4 body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-CA4-head</td>
<td>Right CA4 head</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-fimbria</td>
<td>Right fimbria</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-GC-ML-DG-body</td>
<td>Right granule cell and molecular layer of the dentate gyrus - body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-GC-ML-DG-head</td>
<td>Right granule cell and molecular layer of the dentate gyrus - head</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-HATA</td>
<td>Right hippocampal amygdala transition area (HATA)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-hippocampal-fissure</td>
<td>Right hippocampal fissure</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-HP-tail</td>
<td>Right HP tail</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-molecular-layer-HP-body</td>
<td>Right molecular layer HP body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-molecular-layer-HP-head</td>
<td>Right molecular layer HP head</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-parasubiculum</td>
<td>Right parasubiculum</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-presubiculum-body</td>
<td>Right presubiculum body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-presubiculum-head</td>
<td>Right presubiculum head</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hippocampus_Right-subiculum-body</td>
<td>Right subiculum body</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Thalamus</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-AV</td>
<td>Left anteroventral nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-CeM</td>
<td>Left central medial nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-CL</td>
<td>Left central lateral nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-CM</td>
<td>Left centromedian nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-LD</td>
<td>Left laterodorsal nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-LGN</td>
<td>Left lateral geniculate nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-LP</td>
<td>Left lateral posterior nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-L-Sg</td>
<td>Left limitans nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-MDl</td>
<td>Left mediodorsal lateral parvocellular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-MDm</td>
<td>Left mediodorsal medial magnocellular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-MGN</td>
<td>Left medial geniculate nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-MV(Re)</td>
<td>Left reuniens (medial ventral) nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-Pf</td>
<td>Left parafascicular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-PuA</td>
<td>Left pulvinar anterior nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-PuI</td>
<td>Left pulvinar inferior nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-PuL</td>
<td>Left pulvinar lateral nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-PuM</td>
<td>Left pulvinar medial nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-VAmc</td>
<td>Left ventral anterior magnocellular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-VA</td>
<td>Left ventral anterior nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-VLa</td>
<td>Left ventral lateral anterior nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-VLp</td>
<td>Left ventral lateral posterior nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-VM</td>
<td>Left ventromedial nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Left-VPL</td>
<td>Left ventral posterolateral nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-AV</td>
<td>Right anteroventral nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-CeM</td>
<td>Right central medial nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-CL</td>
<td>Right central lateral nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-CM</td>
<td>Right centromedian nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-LD</td>
<td>Right laterodorsal nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-LGN</td>
<td>Right lateral geniculate nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-LP</td>
<td>Right lateral posterior nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-L-Sg</td>
<td>Right limitans nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-MDl</td>
<td>Right mediodorsal lateral parvocellular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-MDm</td>
<td>Right mediodorsal medial magnocellular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-MGN</td>
<td>Right medial geniculate nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-MV(Re)</td>
<td>Right reuniens (medial ventral) nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-Pc</td>
<td>Right paracentral nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-Pf</td>
<td>Right parafascicular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-PuA</td>
<td>Right pulvinar anterior nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-PuI</td>
<td>Right pulvinar inferior nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-PuL</td>
<td>Right pulvinar lateral nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-PuM</td>
<td>Right pulvinar medial nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-VAmc</td>
<td>Right ventral anterior magnocellular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-VA</td>
<td>Right ventral anterior nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-VLa</td>
<td>Right ventral lateral anterior nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-VLp</td>
<td>Right ventral lateral posterior nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-VM</td>
<td>Right ventromedial nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thalamus_Right-VPL</td>
<td>Right ventral posterolateral nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Striatum</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Striatum_Left-Accumbens-area</td>
<td>Left accumbens area</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Striatum_Left-Caudate</td>
<td>Left caudate</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Striatum_Left-Pallidum</td>
<td>Left pallidum</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Striatum_Left-Putamen</td>
<td>Left putamen</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Striatum_Right-Accumbens-area</td>
<td>Right accumbens area</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Striatum_Right-Caudate</td>
<td>Right caudate</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Striatum_Right-Pallidum</td>
<td>Right pallidum</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Striatum_Right-Putamen</td>
<td>Right putamen</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Hypothalamus</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-AC</td>
<td>Left anterior commissure</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-AHA</td>
<td>Left anterior hypothalamic area</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-AN</td>
<td>Left arcuate nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-BNST</td>
<td>Left bed nucleus of the stria terminalis</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-dB</td>
<td>Left diagonal band of Broca</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-DM</td>
<td>Left dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-DPEH</td>
<td>Left dorsal periventricular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-FX</td>
<td>Left fornix</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-ITP</td>
<td>Left inferior thalamic peduncle</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-LH</td>
<td>Left lateral hypothalamus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-MM</td>
<td>Left mammillary bodies</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-MPO</td>
<td>Left medial preoptic nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-MT</td>
<td>Left mammillothalamic tract</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-NBM</td>
<td>Left nucleus basalis of Meynert</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-Pa</td>
<td>Left paraventricular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-Pe</td>
<td>Left periventricular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-PH</td>
<td>Left posterior hypothalamus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-RN</td>
<td>Left red nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-SC</td>
<td>Left suprachiasmatic nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-SN</td>
<td>Left substantia nigra</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-SO</td>
<td>Left supraoptic nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-STN</td>
<td>Left subthalamic nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-TM</td>
<td>Left tuberomammillary nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-VM</td>
<td>Left ventromedial hypothalamus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Left-ZI</td>
<td>Left zona incerta</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-AC</td>
<td>Right anterior commissure</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-AHA</td>
<td>Right anterior hypothalamic area</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-AN</td>
<td>Right arcuate nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-BNST</td>
<td>Right bed nucleus of the stria terminalis</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-dB</td>
<td>Right diagonal band of Broca</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-DM</td>
<td>Right dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-DPEH</td>
<td>Right dorsal periventricular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-FX</td>
<td>Right fornix</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-ITP</td>
<td>Right inferior thalamic peduncle</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-LH</td>
<td>Right lateral hypothalamus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-MM</td>
<td>Right mammillary bodies</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-MPO</td>
<td>Right medial preoptic nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-MT</td>
<td>Right mammillothalamic tract</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-NBM</td>
<td>Right nucleus basalis of Meynert</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-Pa</td>
<td>Right paraventricular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-Pe</td>
<td>Right periventricular nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-PH</td>
<td>Right posterior hypothalamus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-RN</td>
<td>Right red nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-SC</td>
<td>Right suprachiasmatic nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-SN</td>
<td>Right substantia nigra</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-SO</td>
<td>Right supraoptic nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-STN</td>
<td>Right Subthalamic nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-TM</td>
<td>Right tuberomammillary nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-VM</td>
<td>Right ventromedial hypothalamus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hypothalamus_Right-ZI</td>
<td>Right zona incerta</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Midbrain/brainstem</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>AAN_DR</td>
<td>Dorsal raphe nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>AAN_LC</td>
<td>Locus coeruleus nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>AAN_MRF</td>
<td>Midbrain reticular formation</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>AAN_MR</td>
<td>Median raphe nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>AAN_PAG</td>
<td>Periaqueductal gray</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>AAN_PBC</td>
<td>Parabrachial complex</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>AAN_PO</td>
<td>Pontis oralis nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>AAN_PPN</td>
<td>Pendunculopontine nucleus</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>AAN_VTA</td>
<td>Ventral tegmental area</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Cerebellum</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_LeftCrusII</td>
<td>Left Crus II</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_LeftCrusI</td>
<td>Left Crus I</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_LeftI-IV</td>
<td>Left IV</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_LeftIX</td>
<td>Left IX</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_LeftVIIb</td>
<td>Left VIIb</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_LeftVIIIa</td>
<td>Left VIIIa</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_LeftVIIIb</td>
<td>Left VIIIb</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_LeftVI</td>
<td>Left VI</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_LeftV</td>
<td>Left V</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_LeftX</td>
<td>Left X</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_RightCrusII</td>
<td>Right Crus II</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_RightCrusI</td>
<td>Right Crus I</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_RightI-IV</td>
<td>Right IV</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_RightIX</td>
<td>Right IX</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_RightVIIb</td>
<td>Right VIIb</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_RightVIIIa</td>
<td>Right VIIIa</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_RightVIIIb</td>
<td>Right VIIIb</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_RightVI</td>
<td>Right VI</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_RightV</td>
<td>Right V</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_RightX</td>
<td>Right X</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_VermisCrusII</td>
<td>Vermis Crus II</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_VermisCrusI</td>
<td>Vermis Crus I</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_VermisIX</td>
<td>Vermis IX</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_VermisVIIb</td>
<td>Vermis VIIb</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_VermisVIIIa</td>
<td>Vermis VIIIa</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_VermisVIIIb</td>
<td>Vermis VIIIb</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_VermisVI</td>
<td>Vermis VI</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cerebellum_VermisX</td>
<td>Vermis X</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table><h2 id="references">References</h2>
<hr class="footnotes-sep">
<section class="footnotes">
<ol class="footnotes-list">
<li id="fn1" class="footnote-item"><p>High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging reveals nuclei of the human amygdala: manual segmentation to automatic atlas. Saygin, Z.M., Kliemann, D., Iglesias, J.E., van der Kouwe, A.J.W., Boyd, E., Reuter, M., Stevens, A., Van Leemput, K., Mc Kee, A., Frosch, M.P., Fischl, B., Augustinack, J.C. Neuroimage, 155, July 2017, 370-382. <a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref1:1" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref1:2" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn2" class="footnote-item"><p>A computational atlas of the hippocampal formation using ex vivo, ultra-high resolution MRI: Application to adaptive segmentation of in vivo MRI. Iglesias, J.E., Augustinack, J.C., Nguyen, K., Player, C.M., Player, A., Wright, M., Roy, N., Frosch, M.P., Mc Kee, A.C., Wald, L.L., Fischl, B., and Van Leemput, K. Neuroimage, 115, July 2015, 117-137. <a href="#fnref2" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref2:1" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref2:2" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn3" class="footnote-item"><p>A probabilistic atlas of the human thalamic nuclei combining ex vivo MRI and histology. Iglesias, J.E., Insausti, R., Lerma-Usabiaga, G., Bocchetta, M., Van Leemput, K., Greve, D., van der Kouwe, A., Caballero-Gaudes, C., Paz-Alonso, P. Neuroimage, 2018. <a href="#fnref3" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref3:1" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref3:2" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn4" class="footnote-item"><p>Whole Brain Segmentation: Automated Labeling of Neuroanatomical Structures in the Human Brain, Fischl, B., et al., (2002). Neuron, 33:341-355. <a href="#fnref4" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref4:1" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref4:2" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn5" class="footnote-item"><p>A high-resolution in vivo magnetic resonance imaging atlas of the human hypothalamic region. Neudorfer, C., Germann, J., Elias, G.J.B., Gramer, R., Boutet, A., Lozano, A.M. Scientific Data. 2020;7(1):305. <a href="#fnref5" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref5:1" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref5:2" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn6" class="footnote-item"><p>Neuroanatomic connectivity of the human ascending arousal system critical to consciousness and its disorders. Edlow, B.L., Takahashi, E, Wu, O., et al. Journal of Neuropathology &amp; Experimental Neurology. 2012;71(6):531-546. <a href="#fnref6" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref6:1" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref6:2" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn7" class="footnote-item"><p>A probabilistic MR atlas of the human cerebellum. Diedrichsen, J., Balsters, J.H., Flavell, J., Cussans, E., Ramnani, N. Neuroimage. 2009;46(1):39-46. <a href="#fnref7" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref7:1" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref7:2" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn8" class="footnote-item"><p>Local-Global Parcellation of the Human Cerebral Cortex from Intrinsic Functional Connectivity MRI. Schaefer, A., Kong, R., Gordon, E.M., et al. Cereb Cortex. 2018;28(9):3095-3114. <a href="#fnref8" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref8:1" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref8:2" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn9" class="footnote-item"><p>Unbiased average age-appropriate atlases for pediatric studies. Fonov, V., Evans, A.C., Botteron, K., et al. Neuroimage. 2011;54(1):313-327. <a href="#fnref9" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn10" class="footnote-item"><p>Improved Optimisation for the Robust and Accurate Linear Registration and Motion Correction of Brain Images. Jenkinson, M., Bannister, P., Brady, J.M. and Smith, S.M. NeuroImage, 17(2), 825-841, 2002. <a href="#fnref10" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a> <a href="#fnref10:1" class="footnote-backref">↩︎</a></p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>

